June 2023 newsletter - open for ideas (#218)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-june-2023.rst

.. post:: June 1, 2023
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Ben
   :location: MLM
   :category: Newsletter

Read the Docs newsletter - June 2023
====================================

News and updates
----------------

- ⚠️ A ``.readthedocs.yaml`` configuration file will be required for your future builds.
  Read more about this change in :doc:`/migrate-configuration-v2`.

> - ✅️ Visiting ``/en/`` on a documentation project now redirects to ``/en/latest/``.

Reviewer: This is true for any language, right? Should note that more explicitly.

Author: True :+1: Fixed that one, it took a few more words to explain though :)

> - 🍿️ All the talks from `Write the Docs Portland 2023 <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2023/>`__ are ready to watch:
>   `Open the new playlist on Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EZJ0mk9Jj3s&list=PLZAeFn6dfHpneQPsDWa4OmEpgW4pNiaZ2>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🍿️ All the talks from `Write the Docs Portland 2023 <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2023/>`__, which we sponsored this year, are ready to watch:
  `Open the new playlist on Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EZJ0mk9Jj3s&list=PLZAeFn6dfHpneQPsDWa4OmEpgW4pNiaZ2>`__.
```

> - 🐛️ Builds with multiline commands suffered from `a few bugs <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/10103>`__ that are hopefully all fixed now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🐛️ Builds with multiline ``build.commands`` should now be `working reliably <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/10103>`_.
```

  Thanks to everyone who helped out!
- 🐛️ `sphinx-rtd-theme 1.2.1 <https://sphinx-rtd-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/changelog.html>`__ has been released with an important bug fix that caused jQuery to not load in certain projects.
- 🔒️ We updated custom domain certificates to 1.2 as the *minimum* TLS version.
- 🔒️ A high-severity vulnerability has been fixed:
  `Write access to projects via API V2 (/api/v2/project/* endpoints) for any logged-in user <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/security/advisories/GHSA-rqfv-8rrx-prmh>`__.

Possible issues
---------------

- ⚠️ Please make sure to read the blog post: :doc:`/migrate-configuration-v2`.

  If you didn't have a ``.readthedocs.yaml`` configuration file,

>   and you are introducing one for the first time,
>   chances are that a lot of your documentation stack is outdated (Python, Sphinx, Ubuntu).
>   So your builds might break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and you are introducing one for the first time,
  we're excited for you to be able to use all our new features like specifying build tool versions (Node, Rust, etc.)!
```

Author: Ah yes, that's more positive. Always hard to choose between the negative reasoning for taking action and the positive reasoning for making changes.

- 🐛️ `sphinx-rtd-theme 1.2.1 <https://sphinx-rtd-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/changelog.html>`__ has been released with an important bug fix that caused jQuery to not load in certain projects.
- 🔒️ We updated custom domain certificates to 1.2 as the *minimum* TLS version.
- 🔒️ A high-severity vulnerability has been fixed:
  `Write access to projects via API V2 (/api/v2/project/* endpoints) for any logged-in user <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/security/advisories/GHSA-rqfv-8rrx-prmh>`__.

Upcoming features
-----------------

- 🚢️ We have concluded work on the first phase of our new `readthedocs-client <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-client>`_.
  The client will be a single library for all the ways Read the Docs enhances documentation from having a flyout menu
  to link to other versions, translations, or subprojects, to showing version warnings for folks browsing outdated docs
  to running ads on community projects.
  There will be integration points and APIs to customize all of these features in the new client.

  We will start to use it on a few selected projects.
  If you are interested in having it enabled on your project,

>   please `reach out`_.

Author: Trying again to stir a bit of hype around this :)

Can you suggest changes that remove any over-promising? And can we have another nice screenshot here? (this newsletter would like a screenshot)

CC: @humitos @agjohnson I promised to bring this up again after it was postponed last time :innocent:  :wave:

Reviewer 2: This is not 100% accurate. The new client is enabled automatically for projects using `build.commands` now and it's not feature complete (no flyout, for example). However, we need to work around a CF quota limitation.

In other words, I think this is not ready to be announced here yet.

Author: It's great to have something in the upcoming horizon that makes readers know that we're doing cool things. I'll try to find something else for the roadmap :)

> News and updates

Reviewer 3: Maybe is worth mentioning that we have migrated all custom domains to have 1.2 as the minimum TLS version?

The `/en/`to `/en/latest/` redirect could also be interesting to mention
